docs(core): deprecation for nameAndDirectoryFormat (#19861)
nrwl/nx: docs/shared/deprecated/as-provided-vs-derived.md

Reviewer: I don't know how specific we want to be about the issues we addressed with the new format, but in case we want to go more into detail, these are some other things we addressed:

- We had multiple option names for the same thing: `directory`. We made it consistent across all generators.
- We had some generators expecting the `directory` option to be relative to the workspace root while others expected it relative to the project source root. We made it consistent across all generators to be relative to the current working directory.
- We converted the provided names to kebab-case. Now, we don't transform what's provided.

The initial PR adding the new format for projects has more context on the `derived` rules and the limitations caused by it: https://github.com/nrwl/nx/pull/18420.

Author: This seems useful.  I've added this information to the page

- We had some generators expecting the directory option to be relative to the workspace root while others expected it relative to the project source root. With `as-provided`, we made it consistent across all generators to be relative to the current working directory.
- We converted the provided names to kebab-case. With `as-provided`, we don't transform what's provided.

## Prompting

Until Nx 18, you will be prompted when running a generator to choose which behavior you want to use:

```{% command="nx g lib my-lib --directory=shared/my-lib" path="~/myorg" %}
✔ Which generator would you like to use? · @nx/node:library

>  NX  Generating @nx/node:library

? What should be the project name and where should it be generated? …
❯ As provided:
    Name: my-lib
    Root: shared/my-lib
  Derived:
    Name: shared-my-lib-my-lib
    Root: packages/shared/my-lib/my-lib
```

There are two different kinds of generators that will prompt you to choose between `as-provided` and `derived`:

- Project Generators (applications and libraries)
- Other Code Generators (components and other code)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Your intent is your intent. However, the commands you write and run is based on how you think Nx will act. Nx used to derive the location of your code, but Nx will not in the future. This prompt allows Nx to act in one of two ways and hopefully one will match your intent at the time you run the command. In the future for the reasons stated above, Nx will *only* take options as provided so you should no longer expect Nx to derive the location. We know it will take time to break old habits. In other words, the "right" answer is the first option but it is okay to be "wrong" for now and still achieve your intent.
```

## Project Generators

> As of Nx 16.8.0, generating a project will prompt you to choose how Nx will calculate where the project should be located. You can choose between `as-provided` and `derived`. `as-provided` will be the default in Nx 18.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of Nx 16.8.0, generating a project will prompt you to choose how Nx will calculate where the project should be located. For now, you can choose between `as-provided` and `derived` but `as-provided` will be the only option in Nx 18.
```

> ### `as-provided`

Reviewer 2: I'd like to not refer to it as `as-provided` vs `derived`. I don't think it's necessary because it is named as it is so we can just talk about it as "When Nx takes your options as provided" vs "When Nx derives the location based on your options as it did before".

- `nx g app my-app --directory=apps/nested/my-app` creates a new application named `my-app` in the `/apps/nested/my-app` folder
- `nx g lib my-lib --directory=libs/shared/ui/my-lib` creates a new library named `my-lib` in the `/libs/shared/ui/my-lib` folder

### `derived`

Choosing `derived` makes Nx behave the way it did before version 16.8.0. Nx will check the `workspaceLayout` property in `nx.json` to determine how it should calculate the path to the new project.

```json
{
  "workspaceLayout": {
    "appsDir": "demos",
    "libsDir": "packages"
  }
}
```

These settings would store apps in `/demos/` and libraries in `/packages/`. The paths specified are relative to the
workspace root.

This makes app or lib generators behave in the following way:

- `nx g app my-app` creates a new application named `my-app` in the `/demos/my-app` folder
- `nx g lib my-lib` creates a new library named `my-lib` in the `/packages/my-lib` folder
- `nx g app my-app --directory=nested` creates a new application named `nested-my-app` in the `/demos/nested/my-app` folder
- `nx g lib my-lib --directory=shared/ui` creates a new library named `shared-ui-my-lib` in the `/packages/shared/ui/my-lib` folder

> If you accidentally generate a project in the wrong folder, use the [move generator](/nx-api/workspace/generators/move) to move it to the correct location.

Reviewer 2: I don't know if it is worth rehashing all of this here. If you know, you know. If you don't know... well you probably shouldn't learn now because it's about to be removed.

I would leave this section as "This is how Nx used to work. It will calculate. If you are a new user, don't worry about it because it's the old way which will be removed." said in a more elegant way :sweat_smile:

Author: All the deprecated docs describe the old way features worked.  New users shouldn't be coming to deprecated doc - they're not the audience.

There are two types of people that come to a deprecated docs page:
1. Someone who realizes the feature they want isn't there any more and want to find out why
2. Someone who is stuck on an old version of Nx and wants information that is accurate for their version

This documentation needs to be here for person #2.

- `nx g component my-component --directory=apps/nested/my-app` creates a new component named `my-component` in the `/apps/nested/my-app` folder
- `nx g component apps/nested/my-app/my-component` creates a new component named `my-component` in the `/apps/nested/my-app` folder

{% callout type="note" title="Must generate inside a project" %}
If the directory specified is not inside a project, an error will be thrown.
{% /callout %}

### `derived`

Choosing `derived` makes Nx behave the way it did before version 17. Nx will use the deprecated flags (`--project`, `--flat`, `--pascalCaseFiles`, `--pascalCaseDirectory`, `--fileName`) to calculate where to generate the code. This behavior will not be available in Nx 18.

This makes generators behave in the following way:

- `nx g component my-component` creates a component in the default project.
- `nx g component my-component --project=my-app` creates a new component named `my-component` in the `/apps/nested/my-app` folder
- `nx g component apps/nested/my-app/my-component` creates a new component named `my-component` in the `/apps/nested/my-app` folder

## Writing Scripts

> If you are using a generator in a script or another environment where it can't have an interactive prompt, you can specify the algorithm to use with a command line flag.
> 
> - `--projectNameAndRootFormat=as-provided` for project generators
> - `--nameAndDirectoryFormat=as-provided` for code generators

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using `nx generate` in a script or another environment where it cannot have an interactive prompt, the command will still behave as it did before. You should opt into the new behavior and change the command with a command line flag.

```diff
- nx g lib lib1 --no-interactive`
+ nx g lib lib1 --directory libs/lib1 --projectNameAndRootFormat as-provided --no-interactive
- nx g c button --project lib1 --no-interactive
+ nx g c button --directory libs/lib1/src/lib/button --nameAndDirectoryFormat as-provided --no-interactive
```

> ## Using Nx Console

Reviewer 2: I would move this up above prompting
